# Foodr

#### Q1: What are you planning to build?

Foodr is a mobile application designed to cater the needs of individuals who want a fun, fast, and easy way to find a new place to eat that they have never been to before. 
Foodr is a mobile app for Android OS that utilizes location data and the Yelp Fusion API to present personalized eating recommendations for the user. The estimated usage time from launching the app to making a decision will be less than 2 minutes. 

A common use case could be if Simon and his coworker were looking for a new lunch spot closeby during their hour break for a change of pace, Simon could easily input a filter for restaurants within a certain radius of his office and swipe through some dishes. Foodr would then present a restaurant that Simon could either swipe right and quickly start navigation to, or swipe left and Foodr will present another personalized option.
Another example use case would be when Ryan is looking for a cheaper dinner option, but wants to try something new. Ryan could open up the app, easily input a filter for budget restrictions, and only be presented with restaurants he’s never seen before. Foodr would then suggest a personalized restaurant for Ryan and he could either swipe right to accept or left to be shown another option.

Foodr chooses a restaurant based on the user's preferences, providing a customized decision the user is sure to love!

#### Q2: Who are your target users?

We have one main set of target users.
1. Individuals who consistently eat the same food. We call our user Steve, a consistent eater.
Steve can be described as open minded and willing to try all of the different types of food available in Toronto's downtown core. However, he is unsatisfied with his current schedule of eating the same thing everyday, so he wastes a lot of time using review sites and apps such as Yelp!. He reads review after review, but none of the reviews he reads describe a restaurant he would be eager to try. As a result, he defaults to his favourite food of poutine. What Steve needs is a personalized recommendation  he is guaranteed to like based on his specific preferences, so this app is targeted to users like Steve. 
https://app.xtensio.com/folio/hlo3l0ug

#### Q3: Why would your users choose your product? What are they using today to solve their problem/need?

Our product offers a fun, fast and easy way to find a new place to eat. By swiping through a series of stock dishes, Foodr will be able to gauge the user's preferences and perform a Yelp! search to find a series of suggestions close to the user's location. The user will then be allowed to swipe through the local suggestions, allowing Foodr to decide on a more refined and customized recommendation. While restaurant search tools such as Yelp! and Zomato exist, our product offers an easier and less overwhelming alternative. For example, instead of spending hours inputting search terms into Yelp! and scrolling through several pages of reviews, users can simply swipe their way through a series enticing dishes and receive a recommendation in less than two minutes. But that’s not all! Once a restaurant suggestion has been accepted, the user will be given directions to the restaurant via GPS, further facilitating the process of finding a new place to eat.

----

### Highlights

It took us a while to arrive at the decision to build our current product. This product was the result of two brainstorming sessions followed by a vote and a group discussion. We had an initial idea that we were all excited about, but after initial planning we realized that it was not as good of an idea as it appeared. We then struggled to come up with new ideas but after a shift in our thinking we were able to come up with our current idea that we are even more excited for. Below is a timeline of the events leading up to our current decision:

 * Sep. 25: After a brainstorming session, we all agreed on our initial idea of a timetable sharer and comparer app. This app would solve the problem of having to ask friends if they had breaks at the same time as you. We could all relate to this problem so we were excited by the idea of it. We thought that it would be more convenient for students to use and easier for students to see when they had common breaks with their friends.
 * Oct. 2: We fleshed out more details about our timetable app, in particular the onboarding process that users would have to go through to begin using our app. This is when we realized that it would not be an easy process to get a student's timetable, as well as all of their friend's timetables, into a format the app could easily use. We came to the decision that this would be too much of a hassle for students and would defeat our original goal of it being more convenient. We all reluctantly agreed that even if we did build this app, we could not see ourselves actually using it and would probably just go back to sending screenshots of our timetables to our friends. We needed a new idea.
 * Oct. 9: We agreed to all be online at the same time in order to have our next meeting. We had another brainstorming session, but this time there was a shift in our ideas. A lot of our ideas from the first brainstorming session were trying to be innovative or revolutionary, solving a problem that has not yet been addressed. This time our ideas were more about augmenting an existing product, creating a better version of a product, or targeting a more niche audience of a product. We noticeably had a lot more ideas this time around with this shift in thinking. We then did a vote as to which ideas we thought were the best, and our current idea, Foodr, came out on top.
 * Oct. 11: We took a few days to discuss and reflect on this new idea, learning from our first idea that we should not get too ahead of ourselves. Similar to our first idea, this was a common problem that we all experienced before so that was a good start. Better than our first idea, however, is that there would be no need for any elaborate onboarding process since there is no user data to save; we just need search terms and filters in order to generate results. This would also not require a user's friends to also have the app since it would be enough for just one person in a group to have the app. This also builds on top of an existing product so we as a team would be able to develop a working product much faster. 
  * Oct. 26: After receiving feedback from our TA, we all agreed that our idea of presenting the users with a random restaurant 
did not solve the dilemma in which an indecisive person cannot decide where to eat. We then proceeded to change our product once again. Staying with the theme of providing a restaurant suggestion, we decided that, after some brainstorming, we would be changing our target audience, and we would no longer be randomizing our suggestion. Instead, we would be targeting users who want to find a new place to eat that they have never been to before. Additionally, we would provide our suggestion by having the user swipe through a series of dishes, and then performing a Yelp! search based on their preferences.
